CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

## Contributing Enhancements

We love contributions to Realm! If you'd like to contribute code, documentation, or any other improvements, please [file a Pull Request](https://github.com/realm/realm-java/pulls) on our GitHub repository. Make sure to accept our [CLA](#CLA)!

### CLA

Realm welcomes all contributions! The only requirement we have is that, like many other projects, we need to have a [Contributor License Agreement](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contributor_License_Agreement) (CLA) in place before we can accept any external code. Our own CLA is a modified version of the Apache Software Foundation’s CLA.

[Please submit your CLA electronically using our Google form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1bVp-Wp5nmNFz9Nx-ngTmYBVWVdwTyKj4T0WtfVm0Ozs/viewform?fbzx=4154977190905366979) so we can accept your submissions. The GitHub username you file there will need to match that of your Pull Requests. If you have any questions or cannot file the CLA electronically, you can email <help@realm.io>.

## Unit tests
All PR's must be accompanied by related unit tests.

## Code style
While we havn't described our code style yet, please just follow the existing style you see in the files you change.

Commit message:

Move issue instructions to CONTRIBUTING

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

## Filing Issues

Whether you find a bug, typo or an API call that could be clarified, please [file an issue](https://github.com/realm/realm-java/issues) on our GitHub repository.

When filing an issue, please provide as much of the following information as possible in order to help us fix it:

1. **Goals**
2. **Expected results**
3. **Actual results**
4. **Steps to reproduce**
5. **Code sample that highlights the issue** (link to full Android Studio projects that we can compile ourselves are ideal)
6. **Version of Realm/Android Studio/OS**

If you'd like to send us sensitive sample code to help troubleshoot your issue, you can email <help@realm.io> directly.

## Contributing Enhancements

We love contributions to Realm! If you'd like to contribute code, documentation, or any other improvements, please [file a Pull Request](https://github.com/realm/realm-java/pulls) on our GitHub repository. Make sure to accept our [CLA](#CLA)!

### CLA

Realm welcomes all contributions! The only requirement we have is that, like many other projects, we need to have a [Contributor License Agreement](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Contributor_License_Agreement) (CLA) in place before we can accept any external code. Our own CLA is a modified version of the Apache Software Foundation’s CLA.

[Please submit your CLA electronically using our Google form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1bVp-Wp5nmNFz9Nx-ngTmYBVWVdwTyKj4T0WtfVm0Ozs/viewform?fbzx=4154977190905366979) so we can accept your submissions. The GitHub username you file there will need to match that of your Pull Requests. If you have any questions or cannot file the CLA electronically, you can email <help@realm.io>.

## Unit tests
All PR's must be accompanied by related unit tests.

## Code style
While we havn't described our code style yet, please just follow the existing style you see in the files you change.
