README.md, before:

Java
====

This README file explains how to build and install the TightDB
language binding for Java. It assumes that the TightDB core library
has already been installed.

After building, and before installing, it is possible to run a number
of bundeled examples. If you are interested, see
examples/intro-example/README.md.


Prerequisites
-------------

To build this language binding, you need version 1.6 or newer of the
Java Development Kit (JDK).

You also need the "Commons IO" and "Commons Lang" Java libraries from
Apache Commons (http://commons.apache.org), as well as the
"Freemarker" Java library (http://freemarker.sourceforge.net).

Additionally, you need the standard set of build tools. This includes
a C/C++ compiler and GNU make. TightDB is thoroughly tested with both
GCC and Clang. It is known to work with GCC 4.2 and newer, as well as
with Clang 3.0 and newer.

To run the test suite you need TestNG (http://testng.org) as well as
its dependencies.

To run the examples you need Apache Ant (http://ant.apache.org).

The following is a suggestion of how to install the prerequisites on
each of our major platforms:

### Ubuntu 10.04

    sudo apt-get install build-essential openjdk-6-jre openjdk-6-jdk
    sudo apt-get install libcommons-io-java libcommons-lang-java libfreemarker-java
    sudo apt-get install testng libqdox-java bsh ant

### Ubuntu 12.04 and 13.04, Linux Mint 15

    sudo apt-get install build-essential openjdk-7-jre openjdk-7-jdk
    sudo apt-get install libcommons-io-java libcommons-lang-java libfreemarker-java
    sudo apt-get install testng libqdox-java bsh ant

### Fedora 17, 18, 19, 20

    sudo yum install gcc gcc-c++ java-1.7.0-openjdk-devel
    sudo yum install apache-commons-io apache-commons-lang freemarker
    sudo yum install testng qdox bsh ant

### Amazon Linux 2012.09

    sudo yum install gcc gcc-c++ java-1.7.0-openjdk-devel
    sudo yum install apache-commons-io apache-commons-lang
    sudo yum install qdox bsh ant

Java libraries Freemarker and TestNG are not currently available in
the Yum repository, but they can be downloaded and installed manually
from the respective wesites. To make this process a little easier, we
have bundled the relevant libraries with the TightDB Java extension in
the `prerequisite_jars` subdirectory, but please note that TightDB
makes no guarantees, and has no responsibility with respect to the
fitness of the bundled libraries on any target system.

With that said, here are the commands that will install the Freemarker
JAR on your system (please be carefull about overwriting existing
files):

    sudo install -d /usr/local/share/java
    sudo install -m 644 prerequisite_jars/freemarker.jar /usr/local/share/java

If you intend to run the optional test-suite, you also need this one:

    sudo install -m 644 prerequisite_jars/testng.jar /usr/local/share/java

### Mac OS X 10.7, 10.8, and 10.9

On Mac OS X, the build procedure uses Clang as the C/C++ compiler by
default. It needs at least Clang 3.0 which comes with Xcode 4.2. On OS
X 10.9 (Mavericks) we recommend at least Xcode 5.0, since in some
cases when a previous version of OS X is upgraded to 10.9, you will be
left with a malfunctioning set of command line tools (in particular
the `lipo` command), and this is most easily fixed by upgrading to
Xcode 5. Run the following command in the command prompt to see if you
have Xcode installed, and, if so, what version it is:

    xcodebuild -version

If you have Xcode 5 or later, you will already have the required
command line tools installed. In Xcode 4, however, the "Command line
tools" is an optional Xcode add-on that you must install. You can find
it under the "Downloads" pane of the "Preferences" dialog in the Xcode
4 menu.

Run the following command on the command prompt to see if Java is
already ínstalled:

    java -version

If Java is not already installed, this command will initiate the
installation procedure.

The prerequisite Java libraries (JAR's) can be downloaded and
installed individually from the respective wesites. To make this
process a little easier, we have bundled the relevant libraries with
the TightDB Java extension in the `prerequisite_jars` subdirectory,
but please note that TightDB makes no guarantees, and has no
responsibility with respect to the fitness of the bundled libraries on
any target system.

With that said, here are the commands that will install the bundeled
JAR's on your system (please be carefull about overwriting existing
files):

    sudo install -d /usr/local/share/java
    sudo install -m 644 prerequisite_jars/commons-lang.jar /usr/local/share/java
    sudo install -m 644 prerequisite_jars/commons-io.jar /usr/local/share/java
    sudo install -m 644 prerequisite_jars/freemarker.jar /usr/local/share/java

If you intend to run the optional test-suite, you also need these:

    sudo install -m 644 prerequisite_jars/testng.jar /usr/local/share/java
    sudo install -m 644 prerequisite_jars/qdox.jar /usr/local/share/java
    sudo install -m 644 prerequisite_jars/bsh.jar /usr/local/share/java



Configure, build, install
-------------------------

Run the following commands to configure, build, and install the
language binding:

    sh build.sh config
    sh build.sh build
    sudo sh build.sh install

This procedure will install the following two native JNI libraries in
an appropriate system directory (see "Configuration" below):

    libtightdb-jni.so
    libtightdb-jni-dbg.so

Note: '.so' is replaced by '.jnilib' on OS X.

It will also install the following two Java libraries:

    /usr/local/share/java/tightdb.jar
    /usr/local/share/java/tightdb-devkit.jar

The 'devkit' variant includes an annotation processor and should be
used when compiling your application, as in the following example:

    CLASSPATH=/path/to/tightdb-devkit.jar:. javac foo/MyApp.java

To run your application you only need `tightd.jar`:

    CLASSPATH=/path/to/tightdb.jar:. java foo.MyApp

You can instruct `tightdb.jar` to use the debug version of the native
library by setting `TIGHTDB_JAVA_DEBUG` to a nonempty value, as in the
following example:

    TIGHTDB_JAVA_DEBUG=1 CLASSPATH=/path/to/tightdb.jar:. java foo.MyApp

Here is the complete set of build-related commands:

    sh build.sh config
    sh build.sh clean
    sh build.sh build
    sh build.sh test
    sh build.sh test-debug
    sh build.sh show-install
    sudo sh build.sh install
    sh build.sh test-intalled
    sudo sh build.sh uninstall



Configuration
-------------

It is possible to install into a non-default location by running the
following command before building and installing:

    sh build.sh config [PREFIX]

Here, `PREFIX` is the installation prefix (e.g. `/usr/local`). If it
is not specified, it will be determined automatically to match the
installed JDK.

By default, the language binding is built for the JDK that is
associated with the Java compiler found by `which javac`. To build for
a JDK in a different location, set the environment variable
`JAVA_HOME` before calling `sh build.sh config`, as in the following
example:

    JAVA_HOME=/opt/jdk-1.7 sh build.sh config

By default, the configuration step uses `which tightdb-config` to
locate the installation of the TightDB core library. If this is not
appropriate, because you have multiple versions of the TightDB core
library installed, or `tightdb-config` is not available in your
`PATH`, set the environment variable `TIGHTDB_CONFIG` before calling
`sh build.sh config`. For example:

    TIGHTDB_CONFIG=/opt/tightdb-v0.1.2/bin/tightdb-config build.sh config

To use a nondefault compiler, or a compiler in a nondefault location,
set the environment variable `CC` before calling `sh build.sh build`,
as in the following example:

    CC=clang sh build.sh build

There are also a number of environment variables that serve to enable
or disable special features during building:

Set `TIGHTDB_ENABLE_MEM_USAGE` to a nonempty value during the build
step to enable reporting of memory usage.



Setting up a project
--------------------

For instructions on setting up: Ant, Maven, Eclipse or IntelliJ IDEA,
please consult our online documentation:
http://www.tightdb.com/documentation/Java_misc/1/Tutorial/



Packaging
---------

It is possible to create Debian packages (`.deb`) by running the
following command:

    dpkg-buildpackage -rfakeroot

The packages will be signed by the maintainer's signature.

Commit message:

Ability to specify Java version when configurating build system

README.md, after:

Java
====

This README file explains how to build and install the TightDB
language binding for Java. It assumes that the TightDB core library
has already been installed.

After building, and before installing, it is possible to run a number
of bundeled examples. If you are interested, see
examples/intro-example/README.md.


Prerequisites
-------------

To build this language binding, you need version 1.6 or newer of the
Java Development Kit (JDK).

You also need the "Commons IO" and "Commons Lang" Java libraries from
Apache Commons (http://commons.apache.org), as well as the
"Freemarker" Java library (http://freemarker.sourceforge.net).

Additionally, you need the standard set of build tools. This includes
a C/C++ compiler and GNU make. TightDB is thoroughly tested with both
GCC and Clang. It is known to work with GCC 4.2 and newer, as well as
with Clang 3.0 and newer.

To run the test suite you need TestNG (http://testng.org) as well as
its dependencies.

To run the examples you need Apache Ant (http://ant.apache.org).

The following is a suggestion of how to install the prerequisites on
each of our major platforms:

### Ubuntu 10.04

    sudo apt-get install build-essential openjdk-6-jre openjdk-6-jdk
    sudo apt-get install libcommons-io-java libcommons-lang-java libfreemarker-java
    sudo apt-get install testng libqdox-java bsh ant

### Ubuntu 12.04 and 13.04, Linux Mint 15

    sudo apt-get install build-essential openjdk-7-jre openjdk-7-jdk
    sudo apt-get install libcommons-io-java libcommons-lang-java libfreemarker-java
    sudo apt-get install testng libqdox-java bsh ant

### Fedora 17, 18, 19, 20

    sudo yum install gcc gcc-c++ java-1.7.0-openjdk-devel
    sudo yum install apache-commons-io apache-commons-lang freemarker
    sudo yum install testng qdox bsh ant

### Amazon Linux 2012.09

    sudo yum install gcc gcc-c++ java-1.7.0-openjdk-devel
    sudo yum install apache-commons-io apache-commons-lang
    sudo yum install qdox bsh ant

Java libraries Freemarker and TestNG are not currently available in
the Yum repository, but they can be downloaded and installed manually
from the respective wesites. To make this process a little easier, we
have bundled the relevant libraries with the TightDB Java extension in
the `prerequisite_jars` subdirectory, but please note that TightDB
makes no guarantees, and has no responsibility with respect to the
fitness of the bundled libraries on any target system.

With that said, here are the commands that will install the Freemarker
JAR on your system (please be carefull about overwriting existing
files):

    sudo install -d /usr/local/share/java
    sudo install -m 644 prerequisite_jars/freemarker.jar /usr/local/share/java

If you intend to run the optional test-suite, you also need this one:

    sudo install -m 644 prerequisite_jars/testng.jar /usr/local/share/java

### Mac OS X 10.7, 10.8, and 10.9

On Mac OS X, the build procedure uses Clang as the C/C++ compiler by
default. It needs at least Clang 3.0 which comes with Xcode 4.2. On OS
X 10.9 (Mavericks) we recommend at least Xcode 5.0, since in some
cases when a previous version of OS X is upgraded to 10.9, you will be
left with a malfunctioning set of command line tools (in particular
the `lipo` command), and this is most easily fixed by upgrading to
Xcode 5. Run the following command in the command prompt to see if you
have Xcode installed, and, if so, what version it is:

    xcodebuild -version

If you have Xcode 5 or later, you will already have the required
command line tools installed. In Xcode 4, however, the "Command line
tools" is an optional Xcode add-on that you must install. You can find
it under the "Downloads" pane of the "Preferences" dialog in the Xcode
4 menu.

Run the following command on the command prompt to see if Java is
already ínstalled:

    java -version

If Java is not already installed, this command will initiate the
installation procedure.

The prerequisite Java libraries (JAR's) can be downloaded and
installed individually from the respective wesites. To make this
process a little easier, we have bundled the relevant libraries with
the TightDB Java extension in the `prerequisite_jars` subdirectory,
but please note that TightDB makes no guarantees, and has no
responsibility with respect to the fitness of the bundled libraries on
any target system.

With that said, here are the commands that will install the bundeled
JAR's on your system (please be carefull about overwriting existing
files):

    sudo install -d /usr/local/share/java
    sudo install -m 644 prerequisite_jars/commons-lang.jar /usr/local/share/java
    sudo install -m 644 prerequisite_jars/commons-io.jar /usr/local/share/java
    sudo install -m 644 prerequisite_jars/freemarker.jar /usr/local/share/java

If you intend to run the optional test-suite, you also need these:

    sudo install -m 644 prerequisite_jars/testng.jar /usr/local/share/java
    sudo install -m 644 prerequisite_jars/qdox.jar /usr/local/share/java
    sudo install -m 644 prerequisite_jars/bsh.jar /usr/local/share/java



Configure, build, install
-------------------------

Run the following commands to configure, build, and install the
language binding:

    sh build.sh config
    sh build.sh build
    sudo sh build.sh install

You can specify which Java version you need by setting `TIGHTDB_JAVA_VERSION`:

    TIGHTDB_JAVA_VERSION=1.7 sh build.sh config

This procedure will install the following two native JNI libraries in
an appropriate system directory (see "Configuration" below):

    libtightdb-jni.so
    libtightdb-jni-dbg.so

Note: '.so' is replaced by '.jnilib' on OS X.

It will also install the following two Java libraries:

    /usr/local/share/java/tightdb.jar
    /usr/local/share/java/tightdb-devkit.jar

The 'devkit' variant includes an annotation processor and should be
used when compiling your application, as in the following example:

    CLASSPATH=/path/to/tightdb-devkit.jar:. javac foo/MyApp.java

To run your application you only need `tightd.jar`:

    CLASSPATH=/path/to/tightdb.jar:. java foo.MyApp

You can instruct `tightdb.jar` to use the debug version of the native
library by setting `TIGHTDB_JAVA_DEBUG` to a nonempty value, as in the
following example:

    TIGHTDB_JAVA_DEBUG=1 CLASSPATH=/path/to/tightdb.jar:. java foo.MyApp

Here is the complete set of build-related commands:

    sh build.sh config
    sh build.sh clean
    sh build.sh build
    sh build.sh test
    sh build.sh test-debug
    sh build.sh show-install
    sudo sh build.sh install
    sh build.sh test-intalled
    sudo sh build.sh uninstall



Configuration
-------------

It is possible to install into a non-default location by running the
following command before building and installing:

    sh build.sh config [PREFIX]

Here, `PREFIX` is the installation prefix (e.g. `/usr/local`). If it
is not specified, it will be determined automatically to match the
installed JDK.

By default, the language binding is built for the JDK that is
associated with the Java compiler found by `which javac`. To build for
a JDK in a different location, set the environment variable
`JAVA_HOME` before calling `sh build.sh config`, as in the following
example:

    JAVA_HOME=/opt/jdk-1.7 sh build.sh config

By default, the configuration step uses `which tightdb-config` to
locate the installation of the TightDB core library. If this is not
appropriate, because you have multiple versions of the TightDB core
library installed, or `tightdb-config` is not available in your
`PATH`, set the environment variable `TIGHTDB_CONFIG` before calling
`sh build.sh config`. For example:

    TIGHTDB_CONFIG=/opt/tightdb-v0.1.2/bin/tightdb-config build.sh config

To use a nondefault compiler, or a compiler in a nondefault location,
set the environment variable `CC` before calling `sh build.sh build`,
as in the following example:

    CC=clang sh build.sh build

There are also a number of environment variables that serve to enable
or disable special features during building:

Set `TIGHTDB_ENABLE_MEM_USAGE` to a nonempty value during the build
step to enable reporting of memory usage.



Setting up a project
--------------------

For instructions on setting up: Ant, Maven, Eclipse or IntelliJ IDEA,
please consult our online documentation:
http://www.tightdb.com/documentation/Java_misc/1/Tutorial/



Packaging
---------

It is possible to create Debian packages (`.deb`) by running the
following command:

    dpkg-buildpackage -rfakeroot

The packages will be signed by the maintainer's signature.
